hey this is presto Walker this problem
comes from an early round of the
Norwegian mathematical Olympiad the
numbers a B and C are positive integers
an apple cost $1 a banana cost B dollars
and a cherry cost C dollars the cost of
be apples B bananas and a plus B
cherries is $77 what would be the cost
for one Apple two bananas and one cherry
I think Oscar for sending me this puzzle
by email it seems like it's impossible
to solve from the given information and
it stumps many people students were
given about five minutes on average to
solve problems like this can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the solution so let's translate the
given information into a mathematical
equation the total cost will equal the
cost of an apple times the number of
apples plus the cost of a banana times
the number of bananas plus the cost of a
cherry times the number of cherries we
know that an apple cost $1 a banana cost
B dollars and a cherry cost C dollars
furthermore we know the total cost is
seventy seven dollars to make this a
little easier to read I'll remove the
dollar signs now we know we have B
Apple's
B bananas and a plus B cherries so we
can substitute in those values
so what can we do with this equation
well let's continue to see if there are
any patterns in this equation notice
that the first two terms have a common
factor of B so let's factor that B out
and we have B times the quantity a plus
B in this next equation we have a common
factor of a plus B so we'll factor that
out and we have a plus B times B plus C
equals 77 now we need to take advantage
of another piece of information we were
given the numbers a B and C are positive
integers
this means a plus B and B plus C have to
be factors of 77 so what are the factors
of 77 what two numbers could multiply
together to be 77 well they're only a
few possibilities it can either be 1
times 77 or 77 times 1 or it can be 7
times 11 or 11 times 7 those are the
only possibilities because 7 d7 has
prime factors of 7 and 11 since a B and
C are positive integers we also know
that a plus b and b plus c have to be 2
or larger they cannot be 1 so this
further removes the possibility that one
of the factors is 1 so we can eliminate
the top 2 cases this means we know the
two factors are going to be 7 and 11 or
11 and 7 and this will be what's needed
to solve the problem we want to find out
the cost for one apple two bananas and
one cherry we can write this out as a
plus 2 B plus C we can split up to be
into two terms of B and then we can
group this equation as a plus B plus B
plus C
so the question is asking what is the
sum of the factors a + b + b + c well it
could either be 7 and 11
or it can be 11 and 7 and either way
it's going to be a total of 18 and
that's our answer the cost will be 18
dollars did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
if you like this video you can support
me on patreon and you can check out my
books which are listed in the video
description you can also catch me on
social media either at mind your
decisions or at presh tell walker